SAT/README.md, before:

# Stuff about satisfiability

- [CNFs](#cnfs)
  - [Encoding](#encoding)
  - [Generate random CNFs](#generate-random-cnfs)
  - [DPLL](#dpll)
- [Graphs](#graphs)
  - [Encoding](#encoding-1)
  - [Convert to DOT Encoding](#convert-to-dot-encoding)
  - [Render Graphs](#render-graphs)
  - [Find Independent Sets](#find-independent-sets)
- [Exact Cover](#exact-cover)
  - [Encoding](#encoding-2)
  - [Generate Random Instances](#generate-random-instances)
  - [Find Exact Cover](#find-exact-cover)

## CNFs

### Encoding

We use the [DIMACS-Encoding](http://beyondnp.org/static/media/uploads/docs/satformat.pdf).

### Generate random CNFs

`random_cnf.py` generates random cnfs. Outputs files are saved in the `inputs` directory and the file names are of the form `inputs/cnf_*.random.txt`.

#### Usage

```text
usage: random_cnf.py [-h] t n c k

Generates random CNFs.

positional arguments:
  t           Number of CNFs.
  n           Number of variables.
  c           Number of clauses.
  k           Clause width.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
# generate 10 random 2-cnfs with 5 variables and 4 clauses each
python src/random_cnf.py 10 5 4 2 -o "random_cnfs"
# use a preset
bash presets/small_2cnf.sh
```

### DPLL

`dpll.py` checks if a CNF is satisfiable.

#### Usage

```text
usage: dpll.py [-h] input

Checks if a CNF is satisfiable.

positional arguments:
  input       Input file where DIMACS encoding of a formula is stored.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/dpll.py random_cnfs/random_cnf_0.txt
python src/dpll.py inputs/cnf_unsatisfiable.txt
```

## Graphs

### Encoding

- first line: `n_nodes n_edges`
- second line: all nodes (only integer values), separated by comma
- all lines after: edges in the form `from -- to` (edges are undirected)
- lines that start with \# are ignored

#### Example

This is the house of saint nikolaus.

```text
# house of saint nikolaus
5 8
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
# roof
1 -- 2
1 -- 3
2 -- 3
# walls
3 -- 4
4 -- 5
5 -- 2
# diagonal
2 -- 4
3 -- 5
```

<!-- TODO: Generate random Graphs -->

### Convert to DOT Encoding

`graph.py` reads a graph from a file and converts it into DOT encoding. The DOT encoding is saved in the `dot_encodings` directory (e.g. `inputs/graph_0.txt` -> `dot_encodings/graph_0.dot`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: graph.py [-h] [--test] filename

Reads a graph from a file and saves it as a dot encoding.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the encoded graph.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/graph.py inputs/graph_0.txt
```

### Render Graphs

`render.sh` reads a graph from a file and renders it. The rendered image is saved in `.png` format in the `renders` directory (e.g. `inputs/graph_0.txt` -> `renders/render_graph_0.png`).

#### Examples

```text
./render.sh graphs/graph_nikolaus.txt
```

![House of Saint Nikolaus](renders/render_graph_nikolaus.png)

Well that looks like a pretty house.

### Find Independent Sets

`independent_set.py` takes a graph and a parameter $k$ and finds out if there is and independent set of nodes with size $k$ in the given graph. You can also build CNFs that are equivalent to the Independent Set problem. Those CNFs are saved in the `inputs` directory and include the original graph name and the parameter $k$ (`inputs/graph_nikolaus.txt` -> `inputs/cnf_independent_set_k_2_graph_nikolaus.txt`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: independent_set.py [-h] [--cnf] [--test] filename k

Determines if there is an independent set of k nodes.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the encoded graph.
  k           Number of independent nodes.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --cnf       Builds and saves a cnf for the problem instead of solving it recursively.
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/independent_set.py inputs/graph_0.txt 3
python src/independent_set.py inputs/graph_nikolaus.txt 3 --cnf
```

## Exact Cover

### Encoding

- first line: `n s_size`
- all lines after: elements of $S$ in list format (no empty lists please)
- lines that start with \# are ignored

#### Example

```text
5 6
[1, 3, 5]
[2, 4]
[1, 2]
[2, 3, 4, 5]
[2, 3]
```

### Generate Random Instances

`random_exact_cover.py` generates random instances of exact cover. Outputs files are saved in the `inputs` directory and the file names are of the form `inputs/exact_cover_*.random.txt`.

#### Usage

```text
usage: random_exact_cover.py [-h] n_instances n_vars s_size

Generates random instaces of Exact Cover.

positional arguments:
  n_instances  Number of generated instances.
  n_vars       Number of variables.
  s_size       Size of generated S.

options:
  -h, --help   show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/random_exact_cover.py 10 5 6
```

### Find Exact Cover

`exact_cover.py` takes an integer $n$ and a set $S \subseteq 2^[n]$ and finds out if there is a subset $S' \subseteq S$ that is also a partition of $[n]$. You can also build CNFs that are equivalent to the Exact Cover problem. Those CNFs are saved in the `inputs` directory and include the original instance name (`inputs/exact_cover_0.txt` -> `inputs/cnf_exact_cover_0.txt`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: exact_cover.py [-h] [--cnf] [--test] filename

Computes the exact cover for an Exact Cover instance from a file.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the Exact Cover instance.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --cnf       Builds and saves a cnf for the problem instead of solving it recursively.
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/exact_cover.py inputs/exact_cover_0.txt
python src/exact_cover.py inputs/exact_cover_0.txt --cnf
```

Commit message:

some graph fixes and random graph interface

SAT/README.md, after:

# Stuff about satisfiability

- [CNFs](#cnfs)
  - [Encoding](#encoding)
  - [Generate random CNFs](#generate-random-cnfs)
  - [DPLL](#dpll)
- [Graphs](#graphs)
  - [Encoding](#encoding-1)
  - [Generate Random Graphs](#generate-random-graphs)
  - [Convert to DOT Encoding](#convert-to-dot-encoding)
  - [Render Graphs](#render-graphs)
  - [Find Independent Sets](#find-independent-sets)
- [Exact Cover](#exact-cover)
  - [Encoding](#encoding-2)
  - [Generate Random Instances](#generate-random-instances)
  - [Find Exact Cover](#find-exact-cover)

## CNFs

### Encoding

We use the [DIMACS-Encoding](http://beyondnp.org/static/media/uploads/docs/satformat.pdf).

### Generate random CNFs

`random_cnf.py` generates random cnfs. Outputs files are saved in the `inputs` directory and the file names are of the form `inputs/cnf_*.random.txt`.

#### Usage

```text
usage: random_cnf.py [-h] t n c k

Generates random CNFs.

positional arguments:
  t           Number of CNFs.
  n           Number of variables.
  c           Number of clauses.
  k           Clause width.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
# generate 10 random 2-cnfs with 5 variables and 4 clauses each
python src/random_cnf.py 10 5 4 2 -o "random_cnfs"
# use a preset
bash presets/small_2cnf.sh
```

### DPLL

`dpll.py` checks if a CNF is satisfiable.

#### Usage

```text
usage: dpll.py [-h] input

Checks if a CNF is satisfiable.

positional arguments:
  input       Input file where DIMACS encoding of a formula is stored.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/dpll.py random_cnfs/random_cnf_0.txt
python src/dpll.py inputs/cnf_unsatisfiable.txt
```

## Graphs

### Encoding

- first line: `n_nodes n_edges`
- second line: all nodes (only integer values), separated by comma
- all lines after: edges in the form `from -- to` (edges are undirected)
- lines that start with \# are ignored

#### Example

This is the house of saint nikolaus.

```text
# house of saint nikolaus
5 8
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
# roof
1 -- 2
1 -- 3
2 -- 3
# walls
3 -- 4
4 -- 5
5 -- 2
# diagonal
2 -- 4
3 -- 5
```

### Generate Random Graphs

`random_graph.py` generates random graphs. Outputs files are saved in the `inputs` directory and the file names are of the form `inputs/graph_*.random.txt`.

#### Usage

```text
usage: random_graph.py [-h] [-c] n_graphs n_nodes n_edges

Generates random graphs.

positional arguments:
  n_graphs         Number of graphs generated.
  n_nodes          Number of nodes in the generated graph.
  n_edges          Number of edges in the generated graph.

options:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  -c, --connected  Only generate connected graphs.
```

#### Examples

### Convert to DOT Encoding

`graph.py` reads a graph from a file and converts it into DOT encoding. The DOT encoding is saved in the `dot_encodings` directory (e.g. `inputs/graph_0.txt` -> `dot_encodings/graph_0.dot`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: graph.py [-h] [--test] filename

Reads a graph from a file and saves it as a dot encoding.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the encoded graph.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/graph.py inputs/graph_0.txt
```

### Render Graphs

`render.sh` reads a graph from a file and renders it. The rendered image is saved in `.png` format in the `renders` directory (e.g. `inputs/graph_0.txt` -> `renders/render_graph_0.png`).

#### Examples

```text
./render.sh graphs/graph_nikolaus.txt
```

![House of Saint Nikolaus](renders/render_graph_nikolaus.png)

Well that looks like a pretty house.

### Find Independent Sets

`independent_set.py` takes a graph and a parameter $k$ and finds out if there is and independent set of nodes with size $k$ in the given graph. You can also build CNFs that are equivalent to the Independent Set problem. Those CNFs are saved in the `inputs` directory and include the original graph name and the parameter $k$ (`inputs/graph_nikolaus.txt` -> `inputs/cnf_independent_set_k_2_graph_nikolaus.txt`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: independent_set.py [-h] [--cnf] [--test] filename k

Determines if there is an independent set of k nodes.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the encoded graph.
  k           Number of independent nodes.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --cnf       Builds and saves a cnf for the problem instead of solving it recursively.
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/independent_set.py inputs/graph_0.txt 3
python src/independent_set.py inputs/graph_nikolaus.txt 3 --cnf
```

## Exact Cover

### Encoding

- first line: `n s_size`
- all lines after: elements of $S$ in list format (no empty lists please)
- lines that start with \# are ignored

#### Example

```text
5 6
[1, 3, 5]
[2, 4]
[1, 2]
[2, 3, 4, 5]
[2, 3]
```

### Generate Random Instances

`random_exact_cover.py` generates random instances of exact cover. Outputs files are saved in the `inputs` directory and the file names are of the form `inputs/exact_cover_*.random.txt`.

#### Usage

```text
usage: random_exact_cover.py [-h] n_instances n_vars s_size

Generates random instaces of Exact Cover.

positional arguments:
  n_instances  Number of generated instances.
  n_vars       Number of variables.
  s_size       Size of generated S.

options:
  -h, --help   show this help message and exit
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/random_exact_cover.py 10 5 6
```

### Find Exact Cover

`exact_cover.py` takes an integer $n$ and a set $S \subseteq 2^[n]$ and finds out if there is a subset $S' \subseteq S$ that is also a partition of $[n]$. You can also build CNFs that are equivalent to the Exact Cover problem. Those CNFs are saved in the `inputs` directory and include the original instance name (`inputs/exact_cover_0.txt` -> `inputs/cnf_exact_cover_0.txt`).

#### Usage

```text
usage: exact_cover.py [-h] [--cnf] [--test] filename

Computes the exact cover for an Exact Cover instance from a file.

positional arguments:
  filename    File with the Exact Cover instance.

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --cnf       Builds and saves a cnf for the problem instead of solving it recursively.
  --test      Tests the implementation (no other arguments needed).
```

#### Examples

```text
python src/exact_cover.py inputs/exact_cover_0.txt
python src/exact_cover.py inputs/exact_cover_0.txt --cnf
```
